Esperanto tutorial (#122)
nvidia-riva/tutorials: New-language-adaptation/Esperanto/README.md

<img src="http://developer.download.nvidia.com/notebooks/dlsw-notebooks/riva_asr_new-language-adaptation-german-readme/nvidia_logo.png" style="width: 90px; float: right;">

# The Making of RIVA Esperanto ASR Service

> This tutorial walks you through the step-by-step, end-to-end process that NVIDIA engineers and data scientists employed to develop the Riva Esperanto Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) service, from raw transcribed audio data to a ready-to-serve Riva ASR service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial walks you through step-by-step how to develop the Riva Esperanto Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) service, from raw transcribed audio data, to a ready-to-serve Riva ASR service.
```

## Overview

> The below diagram provides a high-level overview of the end-to-end engineering workflow required to realize the Riva Esperanto ASR service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram provides a high-level overview of the end-to-end engineering workflow required to realize the Riva Esperanto ASR service.
```

![png](./Esperanto-workflow.png)

> The Riva new language workflow is divided into 3 major stages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Riva new language workflow is divided into three major stages:
```

- Data preparation
- Training and validation
- Riva deployment

> All stages except for the last "Riva deployment" are carried out in the [NeMo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo) toolkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Except for Riva deployment, all stages are carried out in the [NeMo toolkit](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo).
```

There is an extended [example](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo/blob/main/docs/source/asr/examples/esperanto_asr/esperanto_asr.rst)

> for obtaining an Esperanto ASR model (Conformer-CTC) from scratch in NeMo. We recommend use this example for first two stages of The Riva new language workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for obtaining an Esperanto ASR model (Conformer-CTC) from scratch in NeMo. We recommend you use this example for the first two stages of the Riva new language workflow.
```

## Riva deployment

> With all the models trained, now it's the time to deploy the Riva service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With all the models trained, it's the time to deploy the Riva service.
```

### Esperanto model

> Given the final `.nemo` models that you have trained upon completing the previous training step, here are the steps that need to be done to deploy on Riva:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you've completed training the `.nemo` models, perform the following steps to deploy these models on Riva:
```

- Download RIVA Quickstart scripts (see [instructions](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/riva/user-guide/docs/quick-start-guide.html#local-deployment-using-quick-start-scripts)) – it provides `nemo2riva` conversion tool, and scripts (`riva_init.sh`, `riva_start.sh` and `riva_start_client.sh`) to download the `servicemaker`, `riva-speech-server` and `riva-speech-client` Docker images.

> - Build `.riva` assets: using `nemo2riva` command in the `servicemaker` container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Build `.riva` assets; using the `nemo2riva` command in the `servicemaker` container.
```
